hey this is crushed a locker in the
following star-shaped figure what is the
measure of angle a in degrees this
problem appeared on a test given to
eighth grade students in 1999
approximately 75% of students did not
mark the correct answer can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution one way to solve this
problem is by using several geometric
principles one principle is that a
straight line measures 180 degrees we
can look at the angle next to a hundred
degrees and calculate that it must be
180 minus 100 or 80 degrees similarly
the angle next to 110 degrees must equal
180 minus 110 and therefore that angle
is equal to 70 degrees we now use the
principle that the angles in a triangle
sum up to 180 degrees in the triangle
with 40 degrees and 70 degrees
the final angle will be equal to 180
minus 40 minus 70 so the final angle in
this triangle is 70 degrees we then use
the principle that vertical angles have
equal measure so the angle above 70
degrees is equal to 70 degrees and
finally we again use the principle that
the three angles in a triangle sum to
180 degrees this means angle a is equal
to 180 minus 80 minus 70 and therefore
angle a is equal to 30 degrees so that's
our answer
30 degrees there is in fact a quicker
way to solve this problem you only need
to use one principle which is that the
angles in a triangle sum up to 180
degrees the trick is to look at the
correct triangles
first we'll consider the triangle that
involves a 40 degree angle and the 100
degree angle we know that all three
angles add up to 180 degrees the third
angle therefore will be 180 minus 100
minus 40 this angle is equal to 40
degrees we now consider another triangle
which involves angle a the other angles
are 110 and 40 degrees therefore angle a
will equal 180 minus 110 minus 40
so we directly get that angle a equals
30 degrees and we get to our answer much
quicker did you figure out this problem
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch from
my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
at pressure Locker and if you liked this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description